docs/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Quarkus FX

include::./includes/attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: reference
:categories: miscellaneous

:extension-status: experimental

This extension allows you to use https://openjfx.io/[Java FX] to your Quarkus application.

== Installation

In order to use this extension, you need to add the `io.quarkiverse.fx:quarkus-fx` dependency to your project.

Maven
[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkiverse.fx</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-fx</artifactId>
    <version>{project-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

Gradle
[source,groovy,subs=attributes+]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'io.quarkiverse.fx:quarkus-fx:{project-version}'
}
----

== Usage

The extension allows using cdi features in JavaFX controller classes. +
The FXMLLoader is made a CDI bean and can be injected in your application.

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
@Inject
FXMLLoader fxmlLoader;

public void load() {
  Parent root = this.fxmlLoader.load(this.getClass().getResourceAsStream("/app.fxml"));
  Scene scene = new Scene(root);
  stage.setScene(scene);
  stage.show();
}
----

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
public class MyFxmlController {

  @Inject
  MyService myService;

  @FXML
  private void onButtonClicked() {
    this.myService.doSomething();
  }
}
----

== Startup

To launch the application, you'll need to provide a custom main such as :

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
package io.quarkiverse.fx.fxapp;

import io.quarkiverse.fx.FxApplication;
import io.quarkus.runtime.QuarkusApplication;
import io.quarkus.runtime.annotations.QuarkusMain;
import javafx.application.Application;

@QuarkusMain
public class QuarkusFxApplication implements QuarkusApplication {
    @Override
    public int run(final String... args) {
        Application.launch(FxApplication.class, args);
        return 0;
    }
}
----

When the application is started, you can get obtain access to the primary `Stage` instance by observing the CDI event :

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
void onStart(@Observes @PrimaryStage final Stage stage) {
  // Do something with the stage
}
----

Commit message:

Quarkus main (#5)
* Provide a default launcher

* Rename method

* update doc

* plugin cleanup

* picocli version

* Test update

* Contrib

* Doc

* 21

* action -> windows

* action revert

* untouch build.yml

* untouch build.yml

* untouch build.yml

---------

Co-authored-by: Clément de Tastes <clement.detastes@sciam.fr>

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Quarkus FX

include::./includes/attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: reference
:categories: miscellaneous

:extension-status: experimental

This extension allows you to use https://openjfx.io/[Java FX] to your Quarkus application.

== Installation

In order to use this extension, you need to add the `io.quarkiverse.fx:quarkus-fx` dependency to your project.

Maven
[source,xml,subs=attributes+]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkiverse.fx</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-fx</artifactId>
    <version>{project-version}</version>
</dependency>
----

Gradle
[source,groovy,subs=attributes+]
----
dependencies {
    implementation 'io.quarkiverse.fx:quarkus-fx:{project-version}'
}
----

== Usage

The extension allows using cdi features in JavaFX controller classes. +
The FXMLLoader is made a CDI bean and can be injected in your application.

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
@Inject
FXMLLoader fxmlLoader;

public void load() {
  Parent root = this.fxmlLoader.load(this.getClass().getResourceAsStream("/app.fxml"));
  Scene scene = new Scene(root);
  stage.setScene(scene);
  stage.show();
}
----

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
public class MyFxmlController {

  @Inject
  MyService myService;

  @FXML
  private void onButtonClicked() {
    this.myService.doSomething();
  }
}
----

== Startup

The application will automatically be launched (thanks to a call to `javafx.application.Application::launch`) when the extension is present. +

If you need to customize the launch, you can provide a custom `@QuarkusMain`, such as :

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
package io.quarkiverse.fx.fxapp;

import io.quarkiverse.fx.FxApplication;
import io.quarkus.runtime.QuarkusApplication;
import io.quarkus.runtime.annotations.QuarkusMain;
import javafx.application.Application;

@QuarkusMain
public class QuarkusFxApplication implements QuarkusApplication {
    @Override
    public int run(final String... args) {
        Application.launch(FxApplication.class, args);
        return 0;
    }
}
----

When the application is started, you can get obtain access to the primary `Stage` instance by observing the CDI event :

[source,java,subs=attributes+]
----
void onStart(@Observes @PrimaryStage final Stage stage) {
  // Do something with the stage
}
----
